classes/class_spinbox.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SpinBox.xml.

.. _class_SpinBox:

SpinBox
=======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Range<class_Range>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An input field for numbers.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**SpinBox** is a numerical input text field. It allows entering integers and floating point numbers.

\ **Example:**\ 


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var spin_box = SpinBox.new()
    add_child(spin_box)
    var line_edit = spin_box.get_line_edit()
    line_edit.context_menu_enabled = false
    spin_box.horizontal_alignment = LineEdit.HORIZONTAL_ALIGNMENT_RIGHT

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    var spinBox = new SpinBox();
    AddChild(spinBox);
    var lineEdit = spinBox.GetLineEdit();
    lineEdit.ContextMenuEnabled = false;
    spinBox.AlignHorizontal = LineEdit.HorizontalAlignEnum.Right;



The above code will create a **SpinBox**, disable context menu on it and set the text alignment to right.

See :ref:`Range<class_Range>` class for more options over the **SpinBox**.

\ **Note:** **SpinBox** relies on an underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` node. To theme a **SpinBox**'s background, add theme items for :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` and customize them.

\ **Note:** If you want to implement drag and drop for the underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`, you can use :ref:`Control.set_drag_forwarding<class_Control_method_set_drag_forwarding>` on the node returned by :ref:`get_line_edit<class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` | :ref:`alignment<class_SpinBox_property_alignment>`                           | ``0``                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                         | :ref:`custom_arrow_step<class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step>`           | ``0.0``                                                                      |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`editable<class_SpinBox_property_editable>`                             | ``true``                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                                       | :ref:`prefix<class_SpinBox_property_prefix>`                                 | ``""``                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`select_all_on_focus<class_SpinBox_property_select_all_on_focus>`       | ``false``                                                                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |bitfield|\<:ref:`SizeFlags<enum_Control_SizeFlags>`\>            | size_flags_vertical                                                          | ``1`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_size_flags_vertical>`) |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                         | step                                                                         | ``1.0`` (overrides :ref:`Range<class_Range_property_step>`)                  |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                                       | :ref:`suffix<class_SpinBox_property_suffix>`                                 | ``""``                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`update_on_text_changed<class_SpinBox_property_update_on_text_changed>` | ``false``                                                                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                            | :ref:`apply<class_SpinBox_method_apply>` **(** **)**                 |
   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` | :ref:`get_line_edit<class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit>` **(** **)** |
   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Theme Properties
----------------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`updown<class_SpinBox_theme_icon_updown>` |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_property_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` **alignment** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_horizontal_alignment** **(** :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` value **)**
- :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` **get_horizontal_alignment** **(** **)**

Changes the alignment of the underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **custom_arrow_step** = ``0.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_custom_arrow_step** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_custom_arrow_step** **(** **)**

If not ``0``, :ref:`Range.value<class_Range_property_value>` will always be rounded to a multiple of :ref:`custom_arrow_step<class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step>` when interacting with the arrow buttons of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_editable:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **editable** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_editable** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_editable** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the **SpinBox** will be editable. Otherwise, it will be read only.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_prefix:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **prefix** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_prefix** **(** :ref:`String<class_String>` value **)**
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_prefix** **(** **)**

Adds the specified prefix string before the numerical value of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_select_all_on_focus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **select_all_on_focus** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_select_all_on_focus** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_select_all_on_focus** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the **SpinBox** will select the whole text when the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` gains focus. Clicking the up and down arrows won't trigger this behavior.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_suffix:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **suffix** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_suffix** **(** :ref:`String<class_String>` value **)**
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_suffix** **(** **)**

Adds the specified suffix string after the numerical value of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_update_on_text_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **update_on_text_changed** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_update_on_text_changed** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_update_on_text_changed** **(** **)**

Sets the value of the :ref:`Range<class_Range>` for this **SpinBox** when the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` text is *changed* instead of *submitted*. See :ref:`LineEdit.text_changed<class_LineEdit_signal_text_changed>` and :ref:`LineEdit.text_submitted<class_LineEdit_signal_text_submitted>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_method_apply:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **apply** **(** **)**

Applies the current value of this **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` **get_line_edit** **(** **)**

Returns the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` instance from this **SpinBox**. You can use it to access properties and methods of :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`.

\ **Warning:** This is a required internal node, removing and freeing it may cause a crash. If you wish to hide it or any of its children, use their :ref:`CanvasItem.visible<class_CanvasItem_property_visible>` property.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Theme Property Descriptions
---------------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_theme_icon_updown:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **updown**

Sets a custom :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` for up and down arrows of the **SpinBox**.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (e38686f)

classes/class_spinbox.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SpinBox.xml.

.. _class_SpinBox:

SpinBox
=======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Range<class_Range>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An input field for numbers.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**SpinBox** is a numerical input text field. It allows entering integers and floating point numbers.

\ **Example:**\ 


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var spin_box = SpinBox.new()
    add_child(spin_box)
    var line_edit = spin_box.get_line_edit()
    line_edit.context_menu_enabled = false
    spin_box.horizontal_alignment = LineEdit.HORIZONTAL_ALIGNMENT_RIGHT

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    var spinBox = new SpinBox();
    AddChild(spinBox);
    var lineEdit = spinBox.GetLineEdit();
    lineEdit.ContextMenuEnabled = false;
    spinBox.AlignHorizontal = LineEdit.HorizontalAlignEnum.Right;



The above code will create a **SpinBox**, disable context menu on it and set the text alignment to right.

See :ref:`Range<class_Range>` class for more options over the **SpinBox**.

\ **Note:** With the **SpinBox**'s context menu disabled, you can right-click the bottom half of the spinbox to set the value to its minimum, while right-clicking the top half sets the value to its maximum.

\ **Note:** **SpinBox** relies on an underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` node. To theme a **SpinBox**'s background, add theme items for :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` and customize them.

\ **Note:** If you want to implement drag and drop for the underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`, you can use :ref:`Control.set_drag_forwarding<class_Control_method_set_drag_forwarding>` on the node returned by :ref:`get_line_edit<class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` | :ref:`alignment<class_SpinBox_property_alignment>`                           | ``0``                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                         | :ref:`custom_arrow_step<class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step>`           | ``0.0``                                                                      |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`editable<class_SpinBox_property_editable>`                             | ``true``                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                                       | :ref:`prefix<class_SpinBox_property_prefix>`                                 | ``""``                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`select_all_on_focus<class_SpinBox_property_select_all_on_focus>`       | ``false``                                                                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |bitfield|\<:ref:`SizeFlags<enum_Control_SizeFlags>`\>            | size_flags_vertical                                                          | ``1`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_size_flags_vertical>`) |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                         | step                                                                         | ``1.0`` (overrides :ref:`Range<class_Range_property_step>`)                  |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                                       | :ref:`suffix<class_SpinBox_property_suffix>`                                 | ``""``                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`update_on_text_changed<class_SpinBox_property_update_on_text_changed>` | ``false``                                                                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                            | :ref:`apply<class_SpinBox_method_apply>` **(** **)**                 |
   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` | :ref:`get_line_edit<class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit>` **(** **)** |
   +---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Theme Properties
----------------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`updown<class_SpinBox_theme_icon_updown>` |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_property_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` **alignment** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_horizontal_alignment** **(** :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` value **)**
- :ref:`HorizontalAlignment<enum_@GlobalScope_HorizontalAlignment>` **get_horizontal_alignment** **(** **)**

Changes the alignment of the underlying :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **custom_arrow_step** = ``0.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_custom_arrow_step** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_custom_arrow_step** **(** **)**

If not ``0``, :ref:`Range.value<class_Range_property_value>` will always be rounded to a multiple of :ref:`custom_arrow_step<class_SpinBox_property_custom_arrow_step>` when interacting with the arrow buttons of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_editable:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **editable** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_editable** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_editable** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the **SpinBox** will be editable. Otherwise, it will be read only.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_prefix:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **prefix** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_prefix** **(** :ref:`String<class_String>` value **)**
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_prefix** **(** **)**

Adds the specified prefix string before the numerical value of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_select_all_on_focus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **select_all_on_focus** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_select_all_on_focus** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_select_all_on_focus** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the **SpinBox** will select the whole text when the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` gains focus. Clicking the up and down arrows won't trigger this behavior.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_suffix:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **suffix** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_suffix** **(** :ref:`String<class_String>` value **)**
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_suffix** **(** **)**

Adds the specified suffix string after the numerical value of the **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_property_update_on_text_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **update_on_text_changed** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_update_on_text_changed** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_update_on_text_changed** **(** **)**

Sets the value of the :ref:`Range<class_Range>` for this **SpinBox** when the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` text is *changed* instead of *submitted*. See :ref:`LineEdit.text_changed<class_LineEdit_signal_text_changed>` and :ref:`LineEdit.text_submitted<class_LineEdit_signal_text_submitted>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_method_apply:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **apply** **(** **)**

Applies the current value of this **SpinBox**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SpinBox_method_get_line_edit:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` **get_line_edit** **(** **)**

Returns the :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>` instance from this **SpinBox**. You can use it to access properties and methods of :ref:`LineEdit<class_LineEdit>`.

\ **Warning:** This is a required internal node, removing and freeing it may cause a crash. If you wish to hide it or any of its children, use their :ref:`CanvasItem.visible<class_CanvasItem_property_visible>` property.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Theme Property Descriptions
---------------------------

.. _class_SpinBox_theme_icon_updown:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **updown**

Sets a custom :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` for up and down arrows of the **SpinBox**.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
